♪ Thank you for being a friend ♪
♪ Traveled down the road
And back again ♪
♪ Your heart is true ♪
♪ You're a pal and a confidante ♪
♪ And if you threw a party ♪
♪ Invited everyone you knew ♪
♪ You would see the biggest gift
Would be from me ♪
♪ And the card attached would say ♪
♪ "Thank you for being a friend" ♪
(serene music playing)
Oh, Ma, come here.
I want you to taste this.
Well?
Wouldn't it be easier to put
a pillow over my face while I sleep?
Just set the table.
I'm expecting Stan
and his cousin any minute.
Oh, then this sauce is perfect.
Well, maybe just a drop
more disinfectant.
There. I'm done.
Sure took you a long time
to spell "Welcome, Magda."
I thought that'd be too boring.
Instead, I decided to depict Magda's
escape from Czechoslovakia.
But isn't that barbed wire?
Isn't it amazing
what you can do with icing?
Gee, you made that pack of dogs
look very realistic.
But, Rose, the revolution in
Czechoslovakia was a peaceful one.
Nobody was chased
by a pack of dogs.
But they're good dogs,
Rose.
You are not going
to believe this.
My sister Charmaine just called me.
I didn't think
you two were speaking.
Well, we're not.
How did you know
it was her on the line?
Rose, you're bringing down
the curve for the whole country.
I don't believe it.
She's coming to promote
a novel she's had published.
We're all invited
to a book-signing party.
I can't believe she read a book,
much less wrote one.
-(doorbell chimes)
-They're here.
I just hope Magda
is nothing like Stan.
What'll I do about my sister?
When she leaves Miami, she'll be
more famous here than I am.
Honey, only if they
close the Sheraton.
-Dorothy?
-Cousin Magda.
Such a beautiful home.
Who sleeps with
government official?
That would be
my friend Blanche.
-Pleased to meet you, Magda.
-Thank you.
This is my mother Sophia Petrillo.
So, you're Stan's cousin.
Please don't hold it against me.
She's ok.
Please, sit down, sit down.
Say, where's Stan,
parking the car?
I take taxi. We have disagreement.
Oh, what about?
He saw himself as human being,
I disagreed.
The man is pig.
He charge me rent,
his own cousin.
I can believe that.
His rates are reasonable,
but he nickels
and dimes you on the extras.
No, you're right.
Stan is a lazy, disgusting,
sorry excuse for a man.
I stay here with you.
On the other hand,
I hear he just got cable.
But I have nowhere to go.
I'm stranger in strange land.
Don't send me to cheap motel.
You have to pay for ice,
just like at Stanley's.
Would it be ok
if she stayed with us?
A novel!
How did my sister publish a novel?
I think it's ok if you stay here.
You take my room.
I'll sleep with Ma.
At least now when I wake up
screaming, I'll have a reason.
(calm music playing)
And you remember that time
big daddy caught us skinny-dipping
with those boys?
You said it was
our bible study group
just practicing baptizing.
It would've worked if you hadn't
come up screaming,
"Hey, you all,
things look bigger underwater."
Maybe it's my imagination,
but we seem to be getting along.
I know.
You just seem so refined
and vivacious and charming.
Boy, you've really changed.
Thank you, Blanche.
Don't forget, I'll see you later
at the book signing.
Maybe I can get your book there.
-Well, it just so happens...
-Oh, is this it?
Vixen, story of a woman.
Ooh, catchy title.
Want me to sign it?
Oh, sure.
Oh, imagine,
an autographed copy.
Will this make it
harder to exchange?
Just kidding.
"To my sister Blanche.
You have inspired me
more than you will ever know.
Charmaine."
That is very sweet.
We'll see each other
at the book-signing.
I meant to ask you.
Do you know what happened
to big daddy's pocket watch?
Virginia says you took it
after the funeral.
That pocket watch
meant so much to me.
Big daddy promised it to me.
In writing?
It was in the will.
Is this the same will where
he promised the summer house
to Gopher from Love Boat?
No, this is the sober will.
All right,
you can have the watch.
It's in my room.
Not now. I'm late.
Bring it to the book signing.
Bye, darling.
See you then.
Did Charmaine leave already?
What am I going to do?
After years of jealousy and malice,
we can finally be friends,
but now I've got to read her book.
If it's junk, I'll have to tell her,
and that'll just kill her.
Look on the bright side.
It could be good.
I was looking on the bright side.
(mellow music playing)
What a day.
Why, what's the matter?
Where's Magda?
You mean Flora the Red Menace?
She's helping Rose unload the car.
Is something wrong, Dorothy?
I don't wanna talk about it.
Magda is driving us crazy.
All she does is complain about
how awful things are in America.
Everywhere we went
something bothered her.
We showed her the mall.
She said we live in
a plastic society with no soul.
This was after I bought her beef
sticks and spreadable cheese
from Hickory farms.
Rose, everywhere you look the rich
take advantage of the poor.
How can you deny there
are inequities in this society?
Well, sure, there are inequities,
but at least we treat
everybody the same.
There must be something about
this country you like.
I like Slurpee's.
That's your fifth one
in the last hour.
They taste so natural and fruitlike.
Oh, Blanche, I see you started
Charmaine's book. How is it?
I don't know if I can finish it.
-It's not good?
-This book's totally unbelievable.
The heroine, Vixen St. James,
is this shallow southern belle
who's vain, self-centered,
and a pushover for any man
that crosses her path.
She's right.
That is unbelievable.
Oh! Oh!
Oh! Oh.
You drank the Slurpee too
fast again, didn't you?
It's like knife
sticking in forehead.
The pain! It is... really good.
These Slurpee's are
best thing about America.
How can you be such an expert?
You've only been here a few days.
I know that communist system
is more fair.
How can you say that?
People all over the world are
realizing communism doesn't work.
It worked for me.
I had automatic can opener.
I was near top
of list to get electricity.
For me things were good.
If things were bad
for everyone else,
how is that fair, comrade?
Don't tell me about communism.
I know what I know.
I'm a communist.
This is terrible.
I was raised to hate communists.
I remember the early fifties
when McCarthy came to St. Olaf
to speak in the town square.
I was never so moved
by a public speaker.
Some people thought he was
a puppet for the right wing.
No, wait. That was Charlie McCarthy.
I'd have put
money on that.
But still, St. Olaf's town motto
was "Better Ned than Red."
Ned was sort of the town idiot.
When, on your days off?
Do you want me to throw her out?
Yes. And while you're at it,
ditch the commie.
I don't believe this.
I don't believe it!
Blanche, what's the matter?
Listen to this.
"Vixen stared at herself
in the mirror.
Her pouty lips,
her flaxen hair,
her flawless
alabaster skin.
Her proud breasts
seemed to be saying,
'Is it just me,
or is it cold in here?'"
So?
Pouty, flaxen, proud.
What do you need, a photograph?
This book is about me.
(soft music playing)
I don't see Blanche.
She'll be over right
after her hair appointment.
She wanted to look her best.
Blanche is handling this
better than I would.
I would kill Gloria if she ever
wrote about my sexual escapades.
You'd kill your sister
over a pamphlet?
-So many books.
-This is a bookstore.
I'll be in the bitter children
of celebrities section.
Don't get lost.
Too many books.
Too many contradictory opinions
next to each other.
This leads to anarchy.
These books represent
different ideas.
What's going to happen
now there is freedom?
People will read these books
and be confused.
The ways things were,
we knew what to do.
When there's one road,
no one gets lost.
-Not necessarily. In St. Olaf--
-Rose.
Is this a story about someone
getting lost?
-Uh-huh.
-Don't tell us. Show us.
There are two books
I want you to read.
The first one is Thomas Paine's
Common Sense.
It'll give you some idea
of what freedom is all about.
The second is Vanna White's
autobiography.
Why should I read this?
It's a hell of a book.
Ma.
Ma, I don't how much more
of Magda I can stand.
We're so close
to the Bermuda triangle
it would a shame for
her not to see it.
You know, you really
can't blame Magda.
It's all this communist ideology
that's been pumped into her.
I hate communism.
Of course you hate communism, Ma,
because you were raised a fascist.
Blanche, where
have you been?
Blanche?
Blanche!
Oh, you look just beautiful.
Thank you for coming.
I wouldn't miss this for the world.
Did you get a chance
to read the book?
Every word.
What did you think?
I should have known
I couldn't trust you.
All that "Let's be sisters"
stuff was bull.
You had no right to use
my life for your book,
to twist facts so that beautiful,
sacred love
became so much tawdry trash.
I earned that "A" in history.
For the first time in my life,
I'm ashamed to be a Hollingsworth.
Vixen, story of a woman
is nothing but a vulgar collection
of perverse sexual acts
that are sheer and utter filth!
(serene music playing)
(telephone rings)
Hello.
Oh, just a minute.
Blanche, it's for you.
It's Charmaine again.
Ok.
Don't you think
you should talk to her?
She's still your sister.
My sister has turned
into a deceitful old woman
whose only pleasure
is in hurting people.
No offense, Sophia.
None taken.
Slut.
What really gets me is
I was willing to be friends.
Just as I start to
forgive and forget,
Charmaine turns my life
into a best seller.
You're not the only one
who had a problem with sisters.
When I was a kid,
I had a doll named Mrs. Doolittle.
Gloria wasn't supposed to--
Do we have to listen to that damn
Mrs. Doolittle story again?
So your sister broke your doll.
It was 50 years ago.
It was very traumatic.
She was my favorite doll.
I didn't talk to Gloria for months,
but eventually, Blanche,
I realized sisters are harder
to replace than dolls.
So we made up,
and I vowed right then and there
never, ever to fight over something
so childish and silly again.
My favorite!
I have a sister story
you'll find interesting.
She made it so the eyes
would never close again!
She made Mrs. Doolittle
look like a morphine addict!
There was a time
when I wanted to leave St. Olaf.
I just didn't feel
it was big enough.
I had my eye
on the great white way.
So I went to St. Gustav,
the city that never naps.
That first night, I walked
around in amazement.
They had their own Fotomat!
Of course, it wasn't as large as
the Fotomats you see today,
here's the scary part.
Suddenly, I realized
I was this frightened little girl
alone in the big city.
Accident, my foot!
It started to rain.
I stood in the middle of
the town square and cried.
Gloria was the one
who had to get the rabies shot.
I was a biter.
There I was, drenched,
and someone yelled out,
"Don't you have enough sense
to come in out of the rain?"
Well, then it hit me.
And when I went home
to St. Olaf,
I passed on this
bit of street-smart savvy.
The next thing you know,
in St. Olaf,
the in thing was
coming in out of the rain.
I was the town celebrity
until the phrase, "Watch out
for that tractor" caught on.
What in hell does this have
to do with sisters?
Didn't I mention?
St. Olaf and St. Gustav
were sister cities.
And how did Mrs. Doolittle's
hair get singed?
Did it herself? I think not.
I had very bad fight
with my sister once.
Oh, really?
Tell us.
I turned her over
to secret police.
And?
I turned her over
to secret police.
No more to tell.
(calm music playing)
♪ When the moon hits your eyes
Like a big pizza pie ♪
♪ That's amore ♪
♪ When the world seems to shine ♪
♪ Like you've had too much wine ♪
♪ That's amore ♪
Oh, Ma, that's lovely.
-What?
-You're singing.
That was me?
I was gonna ask you
to turn off the radio.
Ladies, ladies,
I have very bad news.
I must shorten my stay.
I'm leaving tomorrow.
Move the coffee table.
I want to do a cartwheel.
I must return to
Czechoslovakia immediately
because of something
very valuable I learned here.
You finally understood
what I said in the bookstore.
It was story Rose told
about going to St. Gustav,
learning to come
in out of the rain--
My very favorite doll!
Dorothy, let it go.
Anyway, that trip changed her life.
Now I must have courage
to change mine.
I'm going back
with what I learned here.
It didn't change my life,
I just went home.
Shut up, she's leaving.
See, I left Czechoslovakia
because I was afraid of change,
afraid of the new freedom.
But now I see in America
freedom is change,
always changing for the better idea.
I want to be part
of the future of my country.
So I'm going home.
You got that from my story?
No, Vanna White's book.
I told you.
Now I must go pack my things. And
again, Rose, thank you for story.
You know, isn't life funny?
Last night in bed I told myself,
"Nobody listens to your stories,
Rose. Quit telling them."
I swore I'd never tell another story
as long as I live,
then you hear something like this
and you realize these stories
make a difference.
Oh...
You know,
something sort of like that
happened to Hans Fleeglefleister.
(doorbell rings)
I hope it's death.
Get it, Rose.
Okey-dokey.
Charmaine! Blanche,
look who's here. It's Charmaine.
Oh, good. Ringside seats.
What do you want?
Among other things,
your apology.
Unless I missed a news flash,
hell did not freeze over today.
Anything else?
Yes. Big daddy's pocket watch.
It's a family heirloom.
As far as I'm concerned,
you're no longer family.
You said it's in your room.
Which room is that?
Turnstile at the end of the hall.
So, anyway,
Hans Fleeglefleister...
Get out of my room!
Not till I find that watch.
Now where is it?
I'll never tell,
unlike you who tells everything.
You had no right to rip off
my life for profit.
I wish my bank account
was as big as your ego.
You listen, and you listen good.
My book is based on my life.
Oh, that book just drips
Blanche Devereaux.
Only the names have been changed
to protect the satisfied.
You think you're the only
one who wakes up
to smiles and Roses.
How about that inscription,
how I'd inspired you
more than I'll ever know?
I write the same thing to everybody.
It's just like signing yearbooks.
You always wrote the same thing,
"You were the first."
Wrote it, hell.
I had a stamp made.
Oh, I guess I've just been a fool.
Blanche, we're an awful lot alike.
Too much alike.
That's probably
why we never got along.
That's also why you thought
the book was about you.
My God, you're right.
Oh, except for that part
where Vixen is terrified
of losing her looks
and growing old alone.
I've never felt like that.
Of course. Me, neither.
That's what makes it fiction.
You remember the other day when
you said you thought it was time
that we were friends again?
I believe I'm ready to try.
Oh!
Oh, Blanche!
Oh...
Come on, I'll make you
a big cup of coffee.
Oh, darling, I smudged your makeup.
Oh, I messed up your hair.
(theme music playing)